# i18n Support

## New Localizations

All Persona localization is handled by a community of volunteers using [Mozilla Verbatim](https://localize.mozilla.org/).

To contribute a new localization, read [Localizing with Verbatim](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Localizing_with_Verbatim) and check out the ["BrowserID" project](https://localize.mozilla.org/projects/browserid/) on Verbatim. For more information on joining or starting a localization team, visit [l10n.mozilla.org](https://l10n.mozilla.org/).

## Development

Working with a localized version of BigTent is totally optional for
casual development.

To get started, please [read the l10n locale doc](http://svn.mozilla.org/projects/l10n-misc/trunk/browserid-bigtent/README).

Any copy, label, or error message that will be shown to users **should** be wrapped in a gettext function.

These strings must be evaluated in the scope of a request, so we know which locale the user has.

In JavaScript or EJS templates use `gettext` or `ngettext`. If you need to do string interpolation, use the
[format](../lib/i18n.js) function, which is kind of like node.js' `util.format`, except crappier.

Using `_` is more idiomatic, but conflicts with `underscore.js` on the client side JS and EJS files.

Technically, you can alias `gettext` to `_` and use `util.format`, etc in node.js code - but for development consistency,
we should keep EJS templates looking similar, regardless of if they are evaluated client or server-side.

Currently, all gettext usage is server side.

## Variables

The request object and the response's template context have the following variables:

 * `lang` - User's preferred language
 * `lang_dir` - rtl or ltr (BIDI language support)
 * `locale` - OS level locale code
 * `gettext`, `ngettext` - Gettext functions
 * `format` - for string interpolation

## Debugging

If code is evaluated in node.js (server-side) then node-gettext is providing the string
translation. Strings are from the `messages.json` files under the `translation_directory`.
These JSON files are compiled from the PO files under the `locale` directory.

## Deployment

### Build

The L10n community produces `.po` files. These PO files have the translated strings.

The `i18n-abide` module provides a `compile-json.sh` which will transform these into
`.json` format. This must be done once per build. PO files are not needed in
production, only the JSON files.

Assuming our PO files where under `locale` and we wanted JSON files under `static/i18n`
then this is the build command:

    ./node_modules/.bin/compile-json.sh locale static/i18n

### Configuration

The `translation_directory` should be set to the path of the directory that contains the `messages.json` files.

## New Locales

To add a new language, and thus a new locale to BrowserID, do the following:

    # Assuming you want to add eo for Esperanto support...

    mkdir -p locale/eo/LC_MESSAGES

    msginit --input=./locale/templates/LC_MESSAGES/messages.pot \
            --output-file=./locale/eo/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po \
            -l eo

    msginit --input=./locale/templates/LC_MESSAGES/client.pot \
            --output-file=./locale/eo/LC_MESSAGES/client.po \
            -l eo
